# Digit-Recognizer
Handwritten Digit Recognition using Convolutional Neural Networks



A popular demonstration of the capability of deep learning techniques is object recognition in image data.The “hello world” of object recognition for machine learning and deep learning is the MNIST dataset for handwritten digit recognition developed by Yann LeCun, Corinna Cortes and Christopher Burges for evaluating machine learning models on the handwritten digit classification problem.<br/><br/>
The MNIST dataset, a subset of a larger set NIST, is a database of 70,000 handwritten digits, divided into 60,000 training examples and 10,000 testing samples. The images in the MNIST dataset are present in form of an array consisting of 28x28 values representing an image along with their labels. Images of digits were taken from a variety of scanned documents, normalized in size and centered. This makes it an excellent dataset for evaluating models, allowing the developer to focus on the machine learning with very little data cleaning or preparation required.<br/><br/>
Quite a few techniques using Machine Learning have been developed and used for this like K-Nearest Neighbors, SVM Classifier, Random Forest Classifier etc. but these methods although having the accuracy of 97% are not enough for the real world applications.  In the past decade, deep learning has become the hot tool for Image Processing, object detection, handwritten digit and character recognition etc. A lot of machine learning tools have been developed like scikitlearn, scipy-image etc. and pybrains, Keras, Theano, Tensorflow by Google, TFLearn etc. for Deep Learning. These tools make the applications robust and therefore more accurate. 
